# 2.2 Authentication and Rate limits

## Authentication

Some APIs require authentication to access their data. This is done to ensure that the data is only accessed by authorized users. There are several ways to authenticate with an API, including:

- API keys
- Basic authentication
- Token-based authentication
- JWT (JSON Web Token)

### API keys

API keys are a simple way to authenticate with an API. An API key is a unique identifier that is used to authenticate requests to an API.

#### Example

```bash
curl https://example.com/api/v1/data -H "Authorization: API_KEY"
```

### Basic authentication

Basic authentication is a simple authentication scheme built into the HTTP protocol. It involves sending a base64-encoded username and password with each request.

#### Example

```bash
curl https://example.com/api/v1/data -u username:password
```

### Token-based authentication

Token-based authentication involves sending a token with each request. The token is usually generated by the API server and is used to authenticate the user.

#### Example

```bash
```

### JWT (JSON Web Token)

JSON Web Tokens (JWT) are an open standard (RFC 7519) that defines a compact and self-contained way for securely transmitting information between parties as a JSON object. This information can be verified and trusted because it is digitally signed.

#### Example

```bash
```

## Rate limits

Rate limiting is a way to control the number of requests that can be made to an API in a given time period. This is done to prevent abuse of the API and to ensure that all users have fair access to the data.

---
[top](../README.md)<br/>
[previous: Data formats](2-1-data-formats.md)<br/>
[next: Using APIS via httpie](2-3-using-apis-via-httpie.md)<br/>